# Processes:

For every new connection to a PostgreSQL database, a new process (backend process) is spawned. This process remains alive as long as the client is connected. This means that if you have many concurrent connections, you could potentially exhaust the available resources on your server, such as memory.



**Connection Pools:**
This is where connection poolers like pgBouncer come into play. **Connection poolers maintain a pool of persistent connections to the database.** When a client wants to run a query, it doesn't connect directly to the database. Instead, it connects to the pooler, which then hands off an existing connection from the pool. This reduces the overhead of frequently creating and destroying processes.



For instance, you might have 1000 clients, but only 50 active connections (processes) in your PostgreSQL, managed by the pooler. As clients need to run queries, they "borrow" one of these 50 connections.



## Accessing Setup and Configuration:

**Find Where PostgreSQL is Installed:**
Typically, PostgreSQL configurations are found in the data directory. You can find the location of the data directory by running the following SQL command in psql:

```sql
SHOW data_directory;
```

## Access Configuration Files:

Once you've identified the data directory, navigate to it. You should find postgresql.conf and pg_hba.conf files there.



**postgresql.conf:** This is the primary configuration file for PostgreSQL. Here you can adjust settings related to performance, logging, etc.

**pg_hba.conf:** This file manages client authentication. You define which users can connect, from where, and using what kind of authentication.



## **Editing and Applying Changes:**

After making changes to any of these files, you need to reload PostgreSQL for the changes to take effect. This can be done without restarting the database, and active connections won't be dropped.

Depending on your setup, you can typically reload PostgreSQL with one of these methods:

```sql
pg_ctl reload
```


# or
```sql
service postgresql reload
```


# or, using systemctl on some systems
```bash
systemctl reload postgresql
```



It's always a good practice to backup configuration files before making any changes, and to review and test changes in a staging environment before applying them in production.